Add documentation for R2DBC and simplify samples (#908)
GoogleCloudPlatform/spring-cloud-gcp: docs/src/main/asciidoc/sql.adoc

You can select the type of connection pool (e.g., Tomcat, HikariCP, etc.) by https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/boot-features-sql.html#boot-features-connect-to-production-database[adding their dependency to the classpath].

Using the created `DataSource` in conjunction with Spring JDBC provides you with a fully configured and operational `JdbcTemplate` object that you can use to interact with your SQL database.
You can connect to your database with as little as a database and instance names.

== R2DBC Support

Maven coordinates, using <<getting-started.adoc#bill-of-materials, Spring Cloud GCP BOM>>:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.google.cloud</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-cloud-gcp-starter-sql-r2dbc-mysql</artifactId>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.google.cloud</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-cloud-gcp-starter-sql-r2dbc-postgresql</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

Gradle coordinates:

[source,subs="normal"]
----

> dependencies {

Author: Good idea, done.

    implementation("com.google.cloud:spring-cloud-gcp-starter-sql-r2dbc-mysql")
    implementation("com.google.cloud:spring-cloud-gcp-starter-sql-r2dbc-postgresql")
}
----

=== Prerequisites

In order to use the Spring Boot Starters for Google Cloud SQL, the Google Cloud SQL API must be enabled in your GCP project.

To do that, go to the https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/library[API library page] of the Google Cloud Console, search for "Cloud SQL API", click the first result and enable the API.

NOTE: There are several similar "Cloud SQL" results.

> You must access the "Google Cloud SQL API" one and enable the API from there.

Author: Done. I removed the sentence that says "pick the first option" and mentioned Cloud SQL instead.

=== Spring Boot Starter for Google Cloud SQL

> The Spring Boot Starters for Google Cloud SQL provide an auto-configured https://docs.oracle.com/javaee/7/api/javax/jms/ConnectionFactory.html[`ConnectionFactory`] bean.

Author: Yes, that is a valid point. We should avoid using Spring Boot starter in that case. Thank you for the suggestions!

Coupled with Spring R2DBC it produces a
https://docs.spring.io/spring-data/r2dbc/docs/current/reference/html/#r2dbc.core[`R2dbcEntityTemplate`] object bean that allows for operations such as querying and modifying a database.

[source,java]
----
public Flux<String> listUsers() {
  return template.select(User.class).all().map(user -> user.toString());
}
----

You can rely on

> https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/boot-features-sql.html#boot-features-connect-to-production-database[Spring Boot data source auto-configuration] to configure a `ConnectionFactory` bean.

Reviewer: The link does not point to a specific feature. Might be worth skipping this sentence, since you already explain `ConnectionFactory` above.

> In other words, properties like the SQL username, `spring.r2dbc.username`, and password, `spring.r2dbc.password` can be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Standard R2DBC properties like the SQL username, `spring.r2dbc.username`, and password, `spring.r2dbc.password` can be used.
```

There is also some configuration specific to Google Cloud SQL (see "Cloud SQL Configuration Properties" section below).

|===
| Property name | Description | Required | Default value
| `spring.r2dbc.username` | Database username | No | MySQL: `root`; PostgreSQL: `postgres`
| `spring.r2dbc.password` | Database password | No | `null`
|===

NOTE: If you provide your own `spring.r2dbc.url`, it will be ignored, unless you disable Cloud SQL auto-configuration for R2DBC with `spring.cloud.gcp.sql.enabled=false` or `spring.cloud.gcp.sql.r2dbc.enabled=false` .

==== `ConnectionFactory` creation flow

> Spring Boot starter for Google Cloud SQL registers a `R2dbcCloudSqlEnvironmentPostProcessor` that provides a correctly formatted `spring.r2dbc.url` property to the environment based on the properties mentioned above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spring Cloud GCP starter for Google Cloud SQL registers a `R2dbcCloudSqlEnvironmentPostProcessor` that provides a correctly formatted `spring.r2dbc.url` property to the environment based on the properties mentioned above.
```

It also provides a default value for `spring.r2dbc.username`, which can be overridden.
The starter also configures credentials for the R2DBC connection based on the properties below.

> The user properties and the properties provided by the `R2dbcCloudSqlEnvironmentPostProcessor` are then used by https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/boot-features-sql.html[Spring Boot] to create the `ConnectionFactory`.

Reviewer: They must have rearranged the docs recently because this page stubbornly does not lead to a useful section.

> Using the created `ConnectionFactory` in conjunction with Spring R2DBC provides you with a fully configured and operational `R2dbcEntityTemplate` object that you can use to interact with your SQL database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The customized `ConnectionFactory` is then ready to connect to Cloud SQL. The rest of Spring Data R2DBC objects built on it ( `R2dbcEntityTemplate`,  `DatabaseClient`) are automatically configured and operational, ready to interact with your SQL database.
```

> Similar to the JDBC support, you can connect to your database with as little as a database and instance names.

Reviewer: I'd move this sentence to the top, so it's the second sentence right after "The Spring Boot Starters for Google Cloud SQL provide an auto-configured https://docs.oracle.com/javaee/7/api/javax/jms/ConnectionFactory.html[`ConnectionFactory`] bean."

This describes the value of the starter.
